Thanks to modern technology,
people the world over say
that they have more “friends” than ever.
All they have to do
is add a person’s name
to their list of “friends”
on a social network.
Some boast of having hundreds,
even thousands, of such “friends.”
Others don’t have access to the Internet,
so they make friends
the old-fashioned way
—at work, at school,
or in the neighborhood.
Having good friends is very important.
So we need to ask ourselves:
What is true friendship?
Where should I look for true friends?
How can my choice of friends affect my joy?
As you watch the following dramatization,
think about the effect
our brother’s choice of friends
has on his joy.
And, believe me,
that’s not the only dirt I have on Victor.
OK, we’re listening.
So last week,
he’s talking in his office, right?
And he has no idea
that I’m standing right there,
and he’s bragging
to his buddy . . .
I really didn’t want to hear this.
Lunch with them seemed harmless,
but this was anything but upbuilding.
Hey, hey, check out these guys.
It’s the Bible people.
Uh-oh.
Don’t look now!
I think they have someone.
They might try to convert us too!
What is the deal with these people?
I mean, it’s cool
if you want to believe
in fairy tales and everything,
but keep it to yourself,
right?
Exactly!
Absolutely!
Well, . . .
And those carts are everywhere now!
They’re all over the city.
I couldn’t finish my lunch.
I had never noticed
how sarcastic and negative
my coworkers could be.
I had always thought of them as,
well, as friends.
But what kind of friends was I making?
Did you see the brother’s face
at the end of the video?
He didn’t look very happy.
Why not?
The association seemed harmless.
Workmates were just taking
their lunch break together,
but their conversation
went in a negative direction.
They began talking
about finding dirt on a fellow worker.
Then it got personal.
His coworkers started to make fun
of the Witnesses
who were preaching using a cart.
Please open your Bibles
to Proverbs chapter 19.
We’re going to read three verses here,
and these verses reveal
the disappointing reality
of looking to the world
as a source of true friends.
In Proverbs chapter 19,
we’ll start with verse 4,
and then read verses 6 and 7:
“Wealth attracts many friends,
“but the poor man
will be deserted even by his friend.
“Many seek the favor of a noble,
“and everyone is a friend
to the man who gives gifts.
“All the brothers of a poor man hate him;
“how much more he is shunned by his friends!
He pursues them with requests,
but no one responds.”
Friendships in the world
are often based on selfish motives.
As verse 4 says:
‘Wealth attracts friends;
poverty drives them away.’
Such friendships can be shallow,
and they can end abruptly.
One 42-year-old woman
had over a thousand “friends”
on her social network.
Yet, not one of those “friends”
responded to her plea for help
just before she took her own life.
Friendships with the world
are not only disappointing
but they can also damage
our relationship with Jehovah.
With good reason,
the footnote to 1 Corinthians 15:33 warns us:
“Bad associations corrupt good morals.”
Cultivating friendships with people
who do not serve Jehovah
is like trying to mix oil with water.
It just doesn’t work.
Why not?
Because the Scriptures
teach that true friends
can be found only among Jehovah’s people.
Our Christian brotherhood is the only place
where we can find friends
like the one described
at Proverbs 18:24.
Please open to that scripture,
and notice the distinction
between a companion
and a true friend.
Proverbs 18:24 reads:
“There are companions
ready to crush one another,
but there is a friend
who sticks closer than a brother.”
Our Christian brothers and sisters
are not simply companions, or acquaintances,
someone we happen to know;
they are loyal friends.
We can rely on them.
Why?
Is it because we’re all the same age?
Is it because we come from the same national,
economic, or social background?
No.
Our friends in the Christian congregation
stick “closer than a brother”
because they share our faith, our values,
our love for Jehovah, and our hopes.
They work with us
side by side in the ministry.
They support us when we’re discouraged
or when we’re facing a trial.
They rejoice with us when we have good times
together in Jehovah’s service.
And the true friendships that we enjoy now
in the Christian congregation
are going to last forever.
Do you remember the brother
having lunch with his workmates?
In the following dramatization,
watch his face closely
and notice how having
true friends affected his joy.
I was so glad
I had taken a day off from work.
How long had it been since Lisa and I
got to spend a whole day together
in midweek service?
Lisa started a Bible study.
And we got to share our day
with good friends
—people like Sam and Chloe.
They’ve really been there for us
through the ups and downs.
Look at that!
Ben,
is that you?
What are you doing over there?
Did you guys know about this?
I don’t know where we’d be
if Jehovah hadn’t helped us
to keep our priorities straight
—keeping our life simple,
having a clean conscience,
staying focused on work
that has real meaning,
and having real friends.
What more can you ask for?
Isn’t that the way we feel
after we spend time
with our true friends in the congregation?
What is it about our brothers and sisters
that makes those friendships
so special, so precious?
Why do those friendships
bring us so much joy?
Because our friendship
is based on a solid foundation.
Even when we meet
a fellow Witness for the first time,
we already know a lot about each other.
Think about all the things
we share in common:
We worship the only true God, Jehovah;
we speak the same pure language of truth;
we adhere to Jehovah’s high moral standards;
and we have the same hope for the future.
These things are the foundation
of a relationship
built on confidence and trust
—a true friendship.
What a contrast to people
who do not know Jehovah!
Whether their friendships are formed online,
at work, at school, or in the neighborhood,
friendships in the world
are often based on shared interest.
However, true friendships
are based on common values.
Please open to Proverbs 17:17,
and notice the kind
of friendships we will enjoy
when they are based on spiritual values.
Proverbs 17:17:
“A true friend shows love at all times
and is a brother
who is born for times of distress.”
True friends support one another
physically, emotionally, and spiritually.
And our true friendships
make a valuable contribution to our joy.
People everywhere want to be happy,
but many fail to find true joy
because they’re looking in the wrong place.
As we’ve discussed in this symposium,
the world claims that we can be happy
if we pursue wealth,
if we engage in sinful conduct,
if we adopt extreme views of work,
or if we cultivate friendships
anywhere we can find them.
Such assertions originate
with the ruler of the world,
the father of the lie, Satan the Devil.
If we look for happiness in Satan’s world,
we’re going to be disappointed.
In contrast, this first symposium
of our “Always Rejoice”! Convention
has identified four factors
that contribute to our lasting joy.
God’s Word teaches us
that joy comes from first,
living a simple life;
second, having a clean conscience;
third, doing meaningful work;
and fourth, having true friendships.
Our loving Father, Jehovah,
knows what makes us truly happy.
So may we
continue to follow his sound advice.
If we do, we will find
abundant joy that lasts forever.